# Keepalived ZenPack

This is a Zenoss ZenPack that gathers some statistics from Keepalived.

## Capabilities

* It models virtual servers
* It models real servers
* It collects networking metrics for each real and virtual server. (Same as what you get in ipvsadm -L and --stats)

This zenpack uses the SNMP capabilities that we added in keepalived 1.2.8. Testing so far shows that long term usage of this feature is flakey and so Zenoss data is spotty.


## Prerequisites

* Zenoss 4.2.4 (Core or Enterprise)
* SNMP set up correctly on Zenoss and Keepalived servers.
* Keepalived >= 1.2.8 with SNMP enabled at compile time.

## Keepalived Configuration

* keepalived must be started with the -x or --snmp command line options set. 
* snmpd must be configured to allow AgentX connections ("master agentx" in snmpd.conf)

## References

* Zenoss: http://www.zenoss.com/
* Keepalived: http://keepalived.org/
* SNMP support for keepalived by Vincent Bernat: http://vincent.bernat.im/en/blog/2011-keepalived-snmp-ipv6.html


##  This software is distributed under the MIT License

Copyright (c) 2014 North Dakota Information Technology Department

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
